Here are some ideas for trivia questions for ELC 2021

Categories:

== space stuff:
Q. How many times has Linux landed on Mars?
 green - once
 red - 14 times
 green and red - more than 14 times

answer:
green and red more than 14 times

There were 14 for the Ingenuity helicopter, (including 1 while the
helicopter was stowed in the Perserverance rover, during the rover
landing), and 1 "landing" by the descent stage (Linux was used for EDL
video work)
Source: https://www.theregister.com/2021/02/23/perseverance_landing_video/

----
Q. How many instances of Linux are now in outer space?
 green - less than 100
 red - more than 100

red - more than 100.  There are actually about 106,000 instances of
Linux in outer space, most of them in the 1607 working Starlink
satellites.

----
Q. How many private, all non-professional missions to outer space have there
been, ever?
 green - one
 red - two
 green and red - three

red - The Inspiration 4 mission is the only orbital one I'm aware of, and
the Blue Origin sub-orbital flight.  The Virgin Galactic sub-orbital flight
had a professional pilot.

mission:                 spaceX (inspiration 4), VG, Blue Origin, other missions
privately funded missions:  yes                  yes   yes          no 
all non-professional:       yes                  no*   yes          no
orbital:                    yes                  no    no           most
to ISS:                     no                   no    no           most
to moon:                    no                   no    no           a few
elsewhere:                  no                   no    no           a few*

e.g. to service the hubble space telescope

----
Q. During the landing sequence for the Inspiration4 private space mission,
one of the crew members is shown watching which "in-flight" movie?
 green - Alien
 red - Spaceballs
 red and green - Star Wars

red - Spaceballs

Source: this youtube video: https://youtu.be/dpFKNNl47AM?t=789
You can see Spaceballs playing on Chris Sembroski's tablet during the
landing video.


== IOT: Real or fake

== license news

Q. The FSF recently blogged about:
 green - finally making a GPL v4 version of the license
 red - Writing their own version of the DCO (developer certificate of origin)

answer:
 red - writing their own version of the DCO

They want something that provides more of the capabilities that copyright
assignment provides, since some projects (notably gcc) have started 
accepting DCOs in place of copyright assignment, and the FSF doesn't think
any of the the current industry-standard DCOs are adequate for this.

Source: 

== Linux kernel

Q. The currently released version of Linux is: 
   green - 5.15-rc5
   red - 5.14.6

red: 5.14.6

A release "candidate" doesn't count as a released kernel.
And the current rc number is -rc3, not -rc5

----
Q. A group of academics got in trouble this past year?
 green - submitting patches with intentionally security bugs to the Linux kernel
 red - disclosing security flaws in the Linux kernel, without first notifying the kernel community

green - University of Minnesota researchers submitted some patches
to various mailing lists, that contained known flaws.  Their stated intention
was not to introduce bugs, but rather to test kernel security review practices.
This caused great consternation.

----


----
Q. printk has been changed in the 5.15 Linux kernel with the ability to:
 green - automatically translate messages into other languages besides English
 red - get a list of all printk message strings included in the kernel

answer: red - get a list of all printk messages included in the kernel

The purpose is to allow checking that kernel messages that are checked
by diagnostics tools are still present, despite kernel code changes.

Source: lwn.net
----

Q. The 5.15 kernel now uses the -Werror flag by default.
  The intended result is that:
 green - any compiler warning is converted into an error that will halt the build
 red - certain errors (specified in a special variable) are ignored as warnings

Answer:
 green - any compiler warning is converted into an error that will halt the build

Source: lwn.net

== conference news
Q. How many Embedded Linux Conferences have there been?
   green - 16
   red - 30

sub: Tim counting ELC Europe or not???

Source: https://embeddedlinuxconference.com/
- counting the Embedded Linux Conference
Europe (and not counting the CELF worldwide technical conference)
there have been 30)

Q. How many countries has Embedded Linux Conference been in?
   - green - 6
   - red - 8

Countries and States where ELC has been held:
2021 - Washington
2020 - virtual
2020 - virtual
2019 - France
2019 - California
2018 - Scotland
2018 - Oregon
2017 - Czech Republic
2017 - Oregon
2016 - Germany
2016 - California
2015 - Ireland
2015 - California
2014 - Germany
2014 - California
2013 - Scotland
2013 - California
2012 - Spain
2012 - California
2011 - Czech Republic
2011-2005 - California - 7
2010 - England
2009 - France
2008 - The Netherlands
2007 - Austria

California - 13
Oregon - 2
Washington - 1
Austria - 1
France - 2
Germany - 2
UK - 3
Ireland - 1
Czech Republic - 2
Spain - 1
virtual - 2


Industry news

Computer trivia

Computer history

Linux history:
Q. How old was Linus Torvalds when he made the first announcement of Linux?
   - green - 21
   - red - 24

Answer: Green - 21

Linus was 21 years old, and a student at the University of Helsinki, in Finland,
when he announced Linux (in 1991).
-----
Q. Hold old is Tux now:
 green - 30 years old
 red - 25 years old
 red and green - 20 years old

red = 25 years old
Tux was announced by Linus Torvalds in 1996
----

Q. Due to recent -Werror work by a number of Linux kernel developers,
the default config for x86 5.15 will build (with the default config
for AMD64) without any errors
 green - true
 red - false

Nope - (need to try a default build with 5.15-rc2)

== Movies and current media

Q. Free Guy is about:
 green - a Non-player character in a video game becoming sentient
 red - a government agent who travels forwards and backwards in time

Answer:
 green - a Non-player character in a video game becoming sentient

-----

Famous quotes

Science Fiction
Q. What science fiction epic trilogy is coming to streaming this fall
   green - Dune
   red - Foundation
   green and red - both

Answer:
 green and red - both


----

== Seattle trivia
  - Seattle regional trivia
  - Seattle tech trivia

Q. The Space Needle is:
   green - the name of a hypothetical space elevator (project) proposed 2 years ago by NASA
   red - an observation tower in Seattle, Washington
   red & green - both

answer:
red - an observation tower in Washington State

NASA has studied space elevators, but has no project named "Space Needle".

source: The most serious study of space elevators appears to
have been the NIAC (NASA Institute for Advanced Concepts)
Phase 2 report from 2003.  See
http://www.niac.usra.edu/files/studies/final_report/521Edwards.pdf

---

Q. How old is the Space Needle?
   green - <50 years old
   red - >50 years old

red - greater than 50 years old

It was originally built in April, 1962 the 1962 world's fair in Seattle, making it currently 59 years old.  I visited in when I was 10 years old, in the early 70s.

When it was built, it was the tallest structure in the US west of the 
Mississippi region.

----

Q. What large computer company is headquartered in Seattle?
  green - Amazon
  red - Microsoft

answer:
 green - Amazon

Microsoft's headquarters are in Redmond Washington, about 12 miles away.

== Technology
Q. What is the Beowulf project?
 green - the name of a new quantum computer by Google
 red - one of the earliest uses of Linux in supercomputer clusters

answer:
 red - one of the earliest uses of Linux in supercomputer clusters

Google's quantum computer is named "Sycamore"

== from trivia
Q. Scientist recently demonstrate two ways to create truly random numbers
extremely quickly using a laser.  Which solution was quicker:
  green - a laser reflecting with itself in an special micro-cavity
  red - a laser interacting with the quantum vacuum state

answer
  green - a laser reflecting with itself in an special micro-cavity

Both of these were demonstrated this year.
green = 250 terabytes per second
red = 18.8 gigabits per second

The 'vacuum state' solution was susceptible to external noise which could
bias (and de-randomize) the output, which had to removed in post-processing.

sources: https://phys.org/news/2021-02-scientists-laser-random-ultrafast.html
https://physicsworld.com/a/fast-quantum-random-number-generator-fits-on-a-fingertip/

----
Q. Which of the following companies was victorious in an important lawsuit
   about copyright of APIs, that went all the way to the US Supreme Court?
   green - Oracle
   red - Google

answer:
  red - Google

The court ruled that Google's use of the JAVA API constituted "fair use"
under copyright law.

source: https://www.zdnet.com/article/google-beats-oracle-in-biggest-programming-copyright-supreme-court-case-ever/

----
Q. Which longstanding kernel interface was removed in 2021, due to security considerations:
  green - /dev/kmem
  red - /proc/sys/kernel/keys

answer:
  green - /dev/kmem

/dev/kmem was finally removed, after years of being deprecated, in v5.12
of the Linux kernel.

Source: https://lwn.net/Articles/851531/

----
Q. What major phone vendor has announced a program to "upcycle" old phones
   into useful IOT devices:
   green - Samsung
   red - Apple
   green and red - Sony

answer:
   green - Samsung

Samsung is releasing special firmware updates for old Galaxy phones that
turn them into smart home devices such as a childcare monitor,
a pet care solution, or a light sensor (for home automation control).

source:
https://www.zdnet.com/article/samsung-launches-software-update-to-turn-older-galaxy-phones-into-iot-devices/

----

Q. New technology has been refined (no pun intended) that can power a
   bus from garbage.  It uses:
  green - banana peels and beer
  red - human waste (poo and pee)

Recent work by the University of Bristol's Robotics Laboratory,
has taken existing Microbial Fuel Cells technology, and has
minituarized it to demonstrate MFCs that are smaller than
a AA battery, with similar performance

The 'banana peels and beer' is from a scene where Doc Brown is filling
a "Mr. Fusion" device in the movie "Back to the Future".  Note:
"Mr. Fusion" is a fictional device.

source:
https://robohub.org/robot-stomachs-powering-machines-with-garbage-and-pee/

----

Q. A record size for chip feature density was announced in May by IBM.  The
   feature density was described as:
   green - 4 nanometers
   red - 2 nanometers

Answer:
 red - 2 nanometers

Individual physical elements on the chip are larger than 2 nanometers, but
due to 3-D stacking the effective density of a demonstration wafer
had about 333 million transistors per square millimeter.

source: https://www.anandtech.com/show/16656/ibm-creates-first-2nm-chip

----

== from 

